---
id: 1745443774-sqs
aliases:
  - SQS
tags: []
---

# SQS

Imagine having a sequence of processes following a specific workflow. 
1. Dropping items in shopping cart.
2. Payment
3. Invoice
4. Inventory
5. Labeling
6. Dispatch
7. Tracking

If we create a linear workflow where all those steps rely directly on one another, it would slow the system down and wait for one process to finish completely. For this, we can use queues, where each of the above steps can write the items into a queue where the next step can access the items inside of the queue. This process decouples each process from one another since all processes write now in queues instead passing the items directly.


The components of SQS:
1. Message: Items that is pushed into the queue
2. Queue: List of items that follow a specific order.
3. Producers: Services or application that pushes messages into the queue.
4. Consumers: Processes the messages from the queue. Can be AWS Services or other applications.

Additional Components:
1. Message Attributes
2. Dead Letter Queue for failed events/processes
3. Visibility timeout: After consumer picks up the message, it will appear invisible for other consumers for a certain amount of time.
4. Message Locking: When a message is received this message is locked.

Types of queues:
1. Standard Queue: Best effort ordering, At least once delivers (could contain copies), max throughput
2. FIFO Queue: Strict ordering, message will be delivered only once and up to 300 messages per seconds. Can be enhanced with batching.
